well Maan bashara joins us now he's
alzer's senior political analyst he is
with us on Skype from Paris first of all
can we just talk a little bit about
Israel's response uh to Norway Ireland
and Spain today they've threatened
sanctions they're pulling their
ambassadors Netanyahu has just said that
this is a reward for
terrorism what do you make of that do
you think well you I mean first of all
are you surprised by anything that he
has to say at this point in
time well I've been saying for a while
now that Netanyahu has lost it he lost
it both
metaphorically and politically he lost
it uh metaphorically uh simply because
everything he stood for uh has basically
uh imploded in front of our eyes and his
eyes over the past eight months Mr
security turned out to be Mr insecurity
Mr long serving prime minister tend out
to be indicted on
important corruption charges um his idea
of War uh Swift one against Hamas
winning and reoccupying Gaza tend out to
be a nightmare for the Israelis Israel
is ever more isolated in the region and
in the world so really all in all uh he
lost it he lashes back against uh each
and every person who criticize Israel
calling them Nazis and anti-semitic even
referring to the IC prosecutor as what
did he call it Nazi judges or something
he he he's B basically lost it and and
in in more ways than one and I think his
response about pulling ambassadors it
just goes a long way to tell you how uh
unintelligent rather foolish he's become
in a way that imagine if other European
countries other countries around the
world do the same thing what is he going
to do withdraw all Israeli ambassadors
from all countries in the world just
makes no sense whatsoever yeah do you
think that this is actually going to
change anything in the short term
especially on the on the ground in
Gaza it's not meant to change anything
Gaza for for some this is a bit too
little too late a bit symbolic and it's
sort of a step by Europe to do something
on Palestine without doing something
serious against Israel as it carries its
war crimes in Gaza so one has to be
realistic uh skeptical about these steps
but at the same time appreciate that
there is a movement towards more
recognition Palestinian rights I mean we
can hold those two thoughts at the same
time that this is little bit too little
too late but this is also good thing
that is happening for the Palestinians
yeah there are huge divisions in Europe
at the moment aren't there though
because you've got Norway Spain and
Ireland on one side but you've also got
the likes of Germany and Italy which are
providing huge amounts of weapons to
Israel I think Germany is second only
behind uh the US and the in the terms of
how much it is spending in sending uh
weapons to
Israel yeah Germany is of course as we
all know is a special case because of
its history but one could have learned
the lesson of History by saying never
again is not just never again against
Jews but never again against anyone that
the world should not accept another
genocide unfolding on TV screens on over
our eyes as we speak so Germany took the
narrow uh version of Never Again to mean
that we going to Israel even if Israel
carries a genocide against the
Palestinians and I think there's a lot
of American pressure on European powers
like England France and the and Germany
and so on uh to withhold their support
for Palestinian rights even when Europe
tends to be a bit more
Progressive United States but also the
United States is getting a bit desperate
like Israel is getting desperate on its
uh 30 years of the provin is leading to
nowhere and instead of that they
continue to uh double down and talk
about direct negotiations that will lead
to two set solution which is probably
the the dumbest thing I've heard over
the past so many years because we know
and probably this is a time to write the
book uh diplomacy for dummies because
diplomacy and creative thinking does not
lead to Major Solutions after uh after
such long-term problems as in Israel
Palestine what you need is a different
strategic balance of power what you need
is inter AAL pressure what you need is
American pressure on Israel to change
dire that's what leads to diplomatic
breakthroughs not cynical talk about
direct negotiations that we know that
over 30 years it Le to nowhere and it
will need to Nowhere if we have another
30 years of more of the same okay thanks
so much Maran as always we really
appreciate your Insight Maran Bashar are
there elazer senior political
analyst make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jaaz